.\" Copyright (C) 2026 Spaghetti Fork
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.TH NAMESPACES 7 "2026-06-20" "X Version 11" " Miscellaneous Information Functions"
.SH NAME
namespaces \- SPAGHETTI-NS display namespace extension
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <X11/extensions/namespacesproto.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The SPAGHETTI-NS extension provides display namespace isolation for X11 clients.
Each application gets its own "display namespace" \(em an isolated view of the X
server. Children automatically inherit the parent's namespace via fork/exec.
.PP
When enabled via the
.B \-namespaces
command-line option or
.BR "Option \(dqNamespaces\(dq \(dqtrue\(dq" " in"
.BR xorg.conf (5),
the extension provides:
.IP \(bu 2
Window visibility isolation
.IP \(bu 2
Event delivery isolation
.IP \(bu 2
Input grab isolation
.IP \(bu 2
Screen capture protection
.IP \(bu 2
Property access control
.IP \(bu 2
Selection/clipboard isolation (optional)
.SH REQUESTS
The extension provides the following protocol requests:
.TP
.B xNSQueryVersion
Query the extension version.
.TP
.B xNSListNamespaces
List namespaces visible to the calling client. Root-namespace clients see all
namespaces; non-root clients see only root and their own namespace.
.TP
.B xNSGetClientNamespace
Query which namespace a client belongs to.
.TP
.B xNSGetWindowNamespace
Query which namespace a window belongs to.
.TP
.B xNSMoveClient
Move a client to a different namespace. Requires root namespace privilege.
The targetNamespace field controls the destination: 0 for root,
XNS_NEW_NAMESPACE (0xFFFFFFFF) to create a new namespace, or any other
value to move to that existing namespace. Sibling promotion applies only
when moving to root.
.TP
.B xNSListClients
List client IDs in a namespace.
.TP
.B xNSPromoteSelf
Promote the calling client to the root namespace. Optionally promotes all
sibling clients in the same namespace. If a PromotePassword is configured,
the password field in the request must match or the request is denied.
.TP
.B xNSGetClientPID
Query the process ID of a client. Requires root namespace privilege. Returns
xNSClientIsExternal if the client has no local PID.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B xNSBadNamespace
Namespace does not exist.
.TP
.B xNSBadAccess
Not authorized for this operation.
.TP
.B xNSBadClient
Client ID not found.
.TP
.B xNSClientIsExternal
Target client has no local PID (e.g. external/socket client).
.SH CONFIGURATION
.SS xorg.conf
.nf
Section "ServerFlags"
    Option "Namespaces" "true"
    Option "IsolateClipboard" "true"    # optional
    Option "PromotePassword" "secret"   # optional, up to 32 bytes, null-padded
EndSection
.fi
.SS Command-line
.nf
Xorg -namespaces :0
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR XSECURITY (7),
.BR xorg.conf (5)
