.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH FISSION @drivermansuffix@ @vendorversion@
.SH NAME
fission \- video driver for framebuffer device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qfission\*q"
.BI "  BusID  \*qpci:" bus : dev : func \*q
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fission
is an experimental @xservername@ driver for KMS devices.  This driver supports
TrueColor visuals at framebuffer depths of 15, 16, 24, and 30. RandR
1.2 is supported for multi-head configurations. Acceleration is available
through glamor for devices supporting at least OpenGL ES 2.0 or OpenGL 2.1.
If glamor is not enabled, a shadow framebuffer is configured based on the
KMS drivers' preference (unless the framebuffer is 24 bits per pixel, in
which case the shadow framebuffer is always used).
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The
.B fission
driver supports all hardware where the following is available:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
the Linux DRM KMS ioctls
.IP \(bu 2
dumb object create/map support
.IP \(bu 2
DRM_CAP_ADDFB2_MODIFIERS support
.IP \(bu 2
DRM_CLIENT_CAP_ATOMIC support
.IP \(bu 2
drmCrtcQueueSequence support
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to
.BR @xconfigfile@ (@filemansuffix@)
for general configuration details.
This section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.
.PP
For this driver it is not required to specify modes in the screen
section of the config file.  The
.B fission
driver can pick up the currently used video mode from the kernel
driver and will use it if there are no video modes configured.
.PP
For PCI boards you might have to add a BusID line to the Device
section.  See above for a sample line.
.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSWcursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Selects software cursor.  The default is
.B off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qkmsdev\*q \*q" string \*q
The framebuffer device to use. Default: /dev/dri/card0.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qAccelMethod\*q \*q" string \*q
One of \*qglamor\*q or \*qnone\*q.  Default: glamor.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qVariableRefresh\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enables support for enabling variable refresh on the Screen's CRTCs
when an suitable application is flipping via the Present extension.
.br
The default is
.B off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qTearFree\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable tearing prevention using the hardware page flipping mechanism.
It allocates two extra scanout buffers for each CRTC and utilizes damage
tracking to minimize buffer copying and skip unnecessary flips when the
screen's contents have not changed. It works on transformed screens too, such
as rotated and scaled CRTCs.
.sp 2
TearFree does not mitigate against applications that utilize
PresentOptionAsyncMayTear.
.sp 2
The default is
.B on.
.TP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR @xservername@ (@appmansuffix@),
.BR @xconfigfile@ (@filemansuffix@),
.BR Xserver (@appmansuffix@),
.BR X (@miscmansuffix@)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: Dave Airlie, notbabaisyou